The first thing that we need to
do is load up this libraries.
You can copy this from the option for
branch in the same way that we copied
in the object pool if you'd like to.
This one unfortunately doesn't get
distributed as an ES module, so
we're just gonna load it in
the old school, Script tag way.
But you do need to make
sure that it is loaded.
In our wordie,
we're going to take out the isWord and
we're gonna take out the pool.
And our dictionary is going to
be a minimal word graph, so
we're gonna construct
an instance of MinimalWordGraph.
Our loadWords function,
we're gonna be able to take out all of
this code because the data structure
is gonna take care of all the work
of constructing our data structure.
So really,
all we need to do is double check to
make sure we don't need to empty it out.
So we're gonna say if the dict.size() > 0,
then recreate an instance
of our MinimalWordGraph.
And we're going to call for
let word of wordList.
We're gonna go through each of the words.
And this is the nice part is that we're
just gonna call their method dict.add and
pass in the word.
So that data structure and
their API is taking care of all that
complexity under the covers for us.
There's one final step that we wanna do,
and this is basically the step where it
does all that compaction and
memory efficiency stuff.
Gets rid of all the intermediary steps,
they called it makeImmutable,
which is actually one of my favorite API
nicknames I've ever seen in a library.
It's just very straightforward
what it's doing,
it's making the word graph immutable.
What we should take from that,
importantly,
is that once we have
constructed this word graph and
done all of the compression to get
the nice, efficient memory usage and
all that, we cannot add any
more words to the dictionary.
In our case, that's no big deal because
we pre-loaded the whole dictionary.
There might be cases where you need to
be able to add words to the dictionary
as things go along, in which case this
is not the right data structure to use.
Cuz this data structure really gets its
benefit from the ability to have compacted
it, but that's a one-way operation.
Once you've done all that compaction,
you can no longer add stuff to
the graph cuz it just breaks things.
So for us, that's good,
we go ahead and make it immutable and
we return the dict.size.
We are going to, Yes, question.
>> How does it reduce the memory usage
while the same nodes still exist?
>> It does not create all of the same
nodes, it removes any unnecessary nodes.
And the way that it removes the nodes
is not to actually combine nodes, but
to create additional links.
That's what makes it
a graph versus a trie tree.
But it does actually literally
have far fewer nodes in memory.
We will actually see that once
we run our working solution,
we'll actually be able to see the number
of entries in the data structure is
drastically lower than in the trie tree,
yes?
>> As an aside, this is where I work, and
the typical graph in production has
millions of nodes and billions of edges.
So you are going to have a lot
more links than entities in
general because it's a much
more efficient strategy.
>> And references are a pretty small value
for JavaScript engines to keep track of.
Is it creating more memory to
keep all those references?
Yes, but it's way less than creating
a big old node of string value in it or
something like that.
References are pretty small.
We're gonna call the API
that they provide, and
they actually have several of
these you can read through.
Fair warning, the documentation for this
particular library is not as great as I
wish it would be, and it doesn't seem to
be a super well maintained library, so
your mileage may vary with using it.
But I was able to get this to work.
If they don't say this
in the documentation,
you absolutely have to pass an array.
Implies that if you pass a string,
everything's fine, and I can tell you,
you have to pass an array.
[LAUGH] That I know for sure.
So here I'm just making sure that
we are in fact passing in an array
if we've received a string,
then I'm just turning it into a string,
I mean,
turning it into an array with split.
So containsOnly is
the method name on that data
structure that basically does
the search that we're talking about.
That's our findAllWords functionality,
basically.
So we're gonna be able to
take away findAllWords.
We still have the same problem, their data
structure still has the same problem,
which is that they might end up
returning as duplicates if we passed in,
Duplicate input letters, they might end
up returning as duplicate output letters.
So in the code repo,
you'll see this line of code.
Somebody asked earlier,
could we just deduplicate
the input letters before passing them in?
In our previous algorithm,
that would not work.
But something that's interesting about
the way that containsOnly works is that
it does not care, it will find
all of the matches even if you
didn't provide enough of those letters.
So technically,
we don't actually need line 35,
this is the way it is in the repo.
Technically, we actually could have solved
line 35 by deduplicating what's in input.
So you could do it that way,
pass in a deduplicated set of input
into containsOnly, and
then you won't get those repeats out,
and then line 36 wouldn't be needed.
There is, however, whether you deduplicate
the input or you deduplicate the output,
there is, however, another annoyance
that we have, which is that they
were matching words that we said at
the beginning we don't want to allow.
In other words, they would have matched
appear because they allow that duplication
of those letters.
So it's both a good and a bad thing that
their search algorithm works that way.
So now we are going to be returning
words that our previous algorithm would
not have returned,
because we would allow a single p as
an input to match the word appear
even though it needs two p's.
So to fix that up so that this code
works the same as the code before,
you could make a decision at this
point that I'm using a data structure
that allows the repeats,
maybe that's how I want my app to work.
But just so that we are comparing
Apples to Apples, we're gonna show,
we kind of hinted at this,
but we're gonna show a way
of ensuring that we don't end up
with any of those false positives.
And that is that we're gonna implement
a utility called countLetters, okay?
And this is obviously a very down and
dirty way of doing it,
but we wanna go through any string and
count how many occurrences of each
letter there are in the string.
In fact,
this is a classic interview question.
And I'm only showing one very down and
dirty implementation that you could do for
counting the number of
letters in a string.
So we're gonna go through each
character in the string, and
we're going to create a reference in
this counts object for that character.
So we'll say str[i], And
then we're gonna say,
We're gonna set it equal to either,
I'm just
trying to write it the way I have it in
the repo so that the code compares here.
This is just a way of code golfing,
writing fewer lines of code.
What I'm basically saying is,
if it's there, use it.
Otherwise, default to 0, and
then add 1 to the count.
So I'm incrementing the count, but
I'm defaulting it to 0 if it
hasn't already been said in there.
And then return counts.
So for the word appear,
it would return as an object that had a1,
p2, I'm sorry, a2, p2, e1, r1.
Everybody follow that?
That's what this function does.
We're going to need those counts for
our input.
So I'm gonna come back here and
get those at the beginning.
I'm gonna say inputCounts
= countLetters(input).
If you did the deduplicating of
input rather than the set approach,
whichever way,
if you did the deduplicating of the input,
you would wanna do that after
you counted the letters, right?
So do that deduplication here on line 38.
Okay, so to fix up our result set so that
it filters out the words that we should
not have allowed in there,
that their search should not have allowed,
we're just gonna do a plain
old filter function.
Again, just trying to kind of quickly
sketch this kind of logic out.
For each word in the return set,
we're gonna get its counts.
And then we're gonna go through
all of those letters and
compare the count to what's returned
to the counts of our input, and
if they don't match,
then we're gonna reject it.
So for, Take
the letter and
the count of Object.entries.
WordLetterCounts.
So we're saying, oops, I misspelled that,
we're saying this object
that got the counts for us from this
particular word in our candidate returns,
we're gonna go through
each one of those entries.
So we're gonna go through the a, the p,
the e, and the r entry in that object, for
example.
And we're going to compare the count
that was returned from this word,
so p2,
to the count on our inputCounts object.
So we're gonna say,
if there wasn't that letter,
which this should never happen,
but this is just kind of a,
if there wasn't that letter at all,
that's just sort of a sanity check.
But it shouldn't ever happen that it gives
us back word with a letter that wasn't
in the input set, or the count is greater
than what it was in our inputCounts.
If either of those things is true,
I got one too many parentheses there.
we can reject this
word because it should not be in our list,
so that's return false.
And if we make it all the way
through all the letter counts and
everything was fine,
we return true to keep it.
Thumbs up, thumbs down, how do we feel?
Does that sound all right?
It's a little bit regrettable that their
API doesn't allow a flag that says,
don't allow duplicate letters or
something like that.
It'd be nice if their API did that.
This particular case we just have to
clean up the results a little bit.
So it's kind of a paper cut, but it's on
a much smaller set than the input set.
So as algorithms, we're not too worried
about the performance hit there.
If I did not make mistakes, if I was
able to successfully type that in,
we should be able to go back to our page.
Oop, I did make a mistake on line 30.
Aha, this colon should
have been a semicolon.
Another mistake, line 40.
That's a question mark, sorry.
I didn't even finish that line,
I got ahead of myself.
Array.isArray we just return input and
then colon.
Okay, right off the bat,
notice that our 2,400-word dictionary is
now being represented by directed acyclic
word graph that only needs 1,562 entries.
So we see it having fewer entries
than there are letters in there,
and that's because it's able to
do all of that sharing, okay?
If we go up to
the 370,000-word dictionary,
you'll notice that it did take 810
milliseconds to create that instance and
make it immutable,
do all the compaction on it.
This is a pretty large dictionary as
dictionaries go, but that is a noticeable
impact on startup performance, something
that you would have to think about.
Can I do this in the background thread or
hide it somewhere or whatever, okay?
So just be aware of it,
it's not 20 seconds or something crazy,
that's completely impractical, but
it is something to be aware of.
Notice here, though, instead of having the
1 million entries that we did in our trie
tree, we now have 160,000.
We have less than half the number
of words in our dictionary.
So we went from being three or
four times as many to being
less than half,
pretty significant memory savings.
So again, trade-offs.
Better memory, a little bit harsher
penalty on the startup time.
Let's go back to
the 2,400-word dictionary.
Let's try our examples again,
like the word America, six milliseconds.
We were seeing around one millisecond
before, so slightly slower.
We wanna make sure that we don't see
growth though, so let's try it with nine?
Still pretty quick.
Still very quick.
Even something much longer, Right?
So we see that it's still not
going in a runaway growth,
still performing pretty much linearly.
And that's what we know that we get
from those algorithms like the traversal
of a trie tree, or in this case,
slightly more complex data structure.
But under the covers,
that containsOnly is fundamentally
doing a similar algorithm to ours.